docs: Configure Auth0 as OIDC provider (#1151)
jhipster/jhipster.github.io: pages/security.md

- [Build a Secure Micronaut and Angular App with JHipster](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2020/08/17/micronaut-jhipster-heroku)
- [Fast Java Made Easy with Quarkus and JHipster](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2021/03/08/jhipster-quarkus-oidc)

### Auth0

> If you'd like to use [`Auth0`](https://auth0.com/) instead of `Keycloak`, you can follow the below configuration steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you'd like to use [Auth0](https://auth0.com/) instead of Keycloak, you can follow the below configuration steps:
```

- Create a new application of type `Regular Web Applications`. Switch to the `Settings` tab, and configure your application settings like:
    - Allowed Callback URLs: `http://localhost:8080/login/oauth2/code/oidc`
    - Allowed Logout URLs: `http://localhost:8080/`
- Navigate to **User Management** > **Roles** and create new roles named `ROLE_ADMIN`, and `ROLE_USER`.
- Navigate to **User Management** > **Users** and create a new user account. Click on the **Role** tab to assign roles to the newly created user account.
- Navigate to **Auth Pipeline** > **Rules** and create a new Rule. Choose `Empty rule` template. Provide a meaningful name like `JHipster claims` and replace `Script` content with the following and Save.
```javascript
function (user, context, callback) {
  user.preferred_username = user.email;
  const roles = (context.authorization || {}).roles;
  function prepareCustomClaimKey(claim) {
    return `https://www.jhipster.tech/${claim}`;
  }
  const rolesClaim = prepareCustomClaimKey('roles');
  if(context.idToken) {
  	context.idToken[rolesClaim] = roles;
  }
  if(context.accessToken) {
  	context.accessToken[rolesClaim] = roles;

>   }

Reviewer: These if statements should have a space after `if` and indent only 2 spaces in their body.

Author: should be good now

  callback(null, user, context);
}
```
#### Configure JHipster Application to use Auth0 as OIDC Provider

> - In your `JHipster` application, modify `src/main/resources/config/application.yml` to use `Auth0` application configurations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In your `JHipster` application, modify `src/main/resources/config/application.yml` to use your Auth0 settings:
```

```yaml
spring:
  ...
  security:
    oauth2:
      client:
        provider:
          oidc:
            issuer-uri: https://{your-auth0-domain}/
        registration:
          oidc:
            client-id: {clientId}
            client-secret: {clientSecret}
jhipster:
  ...
  security:
    oauth2:
      audience:
        - https://{your-auth0-domain}/api/v2/
```

> If you have a doubt on the `issuer-uri` value, then, you can get the value from **Applications** > **{Your Application}** > **Settings** > **Advanced Settings** > **Endpoints** > **OpenID Configuration** field value. Remove `.well-known/openid-configuration` suffix as that shall be added by the spring security.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have a doubt on the `issuer-uri` value, then, you can get the value from **Applications** > **{Your Application}** > **Settings** > **Advanced Settings** > **Endpoints** > **OpenID Configuration**. Remove `.well-known/openid-configuration` suffix since that will be added by the Spring Security.
```

You can use the default `Auth0 Management API` audience value from the **Applications** > **API** > **API Audience** field. You can also define your own custom API and use the identifier as the API  audience.

> - Before running `Cypress` tests, specify `Auth0` user details by overriding `E2E_USERNAME`, and `E2E_PASSWORD` cypress environment variables. Refer to cypress [documentation](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/guides/environment-variables#Setting) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Before running `Cypress` tests, specify `Auth0` user details by overriding the `E2E_USERNAME` and `E2E_PASSWORD` environment variables. Refer to [Cypress documentation](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/guides/environment-variables#Setting) for more details.
```

```shell
export CYPRESS_E2E_USERNAME=<your-username>
export CYPRESS_E2E_PASSWORD=<your-password>
```

> _Note_: Auth0 requires a user to provide authorization consent on the first login. Consent flow is currently not handled in the cypress test suite. To mitigate the issue, you can use a user account that has already granted consent to authorize application access via interactive login.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Note_: Auth0 requires a user to provide authorization consent on the first login. Consent flow is currently not handled in the Cypress test suite. To mitigate the issue, you can use a user account that has already granted consent to authorize application access via interactive login.
```

##### Using Environment Variables

You can also use environment variables to override the defaults. For example:

```bash
export SPRING_SECURITY_OAUTH2_CLIENT_PROVIDER_OIDC_ISSUER_URI="https://{your-auth0-domain}/"
export SPRING_SECURITY_OAUTH2_CLIENT_REGISTRATION_OIDC_CLIENT_ID="{client-id}"
export SPRING_SECURITY_OAUTH2_CLIENT_REGISTRATION_OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET="{client-secret}"
export JHIPSTER_SECURITY_OAUTH2_AUDIENCE="https://{your-auth0-domain}/api/v2/"
```

> You can put this in an `~/.auth0.env` file, run `source ~/.auth0.env` to override `Keycloak` with `Auth0` and start your app with Maven or Gradle. You should be able to sign in with the credentials you registered with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can put this in an `~/.auth0.env` file and run `source ~/.auth0.env` to override the default Keycloak settings with Auth0 and start your app with Maven or Gradle. You should be able to sign in with the credentials you registered with.
```

- [Build a Secure Micronaut and Angular App with JHipster](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2020/08/17/micronaut-jhipster-heroku)
- [Fast Java Made Easy with Quarkus and JHipster](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2021/03/08/jhipster-quarkus-oidc)

### Auth0

> If you'd like to use [Auth0](https://auth0.com/) instead of Keycloak, you can follow the below configuration steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you'd like to use [Auth0](https://auth0.com/) instead of Keycloak, follow the configuration steps below:
```

- Navigate to **User Management** > **Roles** and create new roles named `ROLE_ADMIN`, and `ROLE_USER`.
- Navigate to **User Management** > **Users** and create a new user account. Click on the **Role** tab to assign roles to the newly created user account.
- Navigate to **Auth Pipeline** > **Rules** and create a new Rule. Choose `Empty rule` template. Provide a meaningful name like `JHipster claims` and replace `Script` content with the following and Save.
```javascript
function (user, context, callback) {
  user.preferred_username = user.email;
  const roles = (context.authorization || {}).roles;

  function prepareCustomClaimKey(claim) {
    return `https://www.jhipster.tech/${claim}`;
  }
  const rolesClaim = prepareCustomClaimKey('roles');
  if (context.idToken) {
    context.idToken[rolesClaim] = roles;
  }
  if (context.accessToken) {
    context.accessToken[rolesClaim] = roles;
  }
  callback(null, user, context);
}
```
#### Configure JHipster Application to use Auth0 as OIDC Provider
- In your `JHipster` application, modify `src/main/resources/config/application.yml` to use your Auth0 settings:
```yaml
spring:
  ...
  security:
    oauth2:
      client:
        provider:

>           oidc:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          oidc:
            # make sure to include the ending slash!
```

            issuer-uri: https://{your-auth0-domain}/
        registration:
          oidc:
            client-id: {clientId}

>             client-secret: {clientSecret}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            client-secret: {clientSecret}
            scope: openid,profile,email
```

Author: Any specific reason to specify scopes over here. Aren't they same for all providers?

Reviewer: Yes, but if you're editing this file, and replacing the whole block of YAML, you could easily miss adding them. You have to add them. They're no longer the default. They were in previous Spring Security releases.

jhipster:
  ...
  security:
    oauth2:
      audience:
        - https://{your-auth0-domain}/api/v2/
```
If you have a doubt on the `issuer-uri` value, then, you can get the value from **Applications** > **{Your Application}** > **Settings** > **Advanced Settings** > **Endpoints** > **OpenID Configuration**. Remove `.well-known/openid-configuration` suffix since that will be added by the Spring Security.

You can use the default `Auth0 Management API` audience value from the **Applications** > **API** > **API Audience** field. You can also define your own custom API and use the identifier as the API  audience.

> - Before running `Cypress` tests, specify `Auth0` user details by overriding the `E2E_USERNAME` and `E2E_PASSWORD` environment variables. Refer to [Cypress documentation](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/guides/environment-variables#Setting) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Before running `Cypress` tests, specify `Auth0` user details by overriding the `CYPRESS_E2E_USERNAME` and `CYPRESS_E2E_PASSWORD` environment variables. Refer to [Cypress documentation](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/guides/environment-variables#Setting) for more details.
```

        registration:
          oidc:
            client-id: {clientId}
            client-secret: {clientSecret}
            scope: openid,profile,email
jhipster:
  ...
  security:
    oauth2:
      audience:
        - https://{your-auth0-domain}/api/v2/
```
If you have a doubt on the `issuer-uri` value, then, you can get the value from **Applications** > **{Your Application}** > **Settings** > **Advanced Settings** > **Endpoints** > **OpenID Configuration**. Remove `.well-known/openid-configuration` suffix since that will be added by the Spring Security.

You can use the default `Auth0 Management API` audience value from the **Applications** > **API** > **API Audience** field. You can also define your own custom API and use the identifier as the API  audience.

- Before running `Cypress` tests, specify `Auth0` user details by overriding the `CYPRESS_E2E_USERNAME` and `CYPRESS_E2E_PASSWORD` environment variables. Refer to [Cypress documentation](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/guides/environment-variables#Setting) for more details.
```shell
export CYPRESS_E2E_USERNAME=<your-username>
export CYPRESS_E2E_PASSWORD=<your-password>
```

> _Note_: Auth0 requires a user to provide authorization consent on the first login. Consent flow is currently not handled in the Cypress test suite. To mitigate the issue, you can use a user account that has already granted consent to authorize application access via interactive login.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Note_: Auth0 requires a user to provide authorization consent on the first login. Consent flow is currently not handled in the Cypress test suite. To mitigate the issue, you can use a user account that has already granted consent to authorize application access via interactive login.

If you experience authentication issues with Cypress, see [this guide](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/testing-strategies/auth0-authentication#Auth0-Rate-Limiting-Logins) for a workaround.
```

- [Build a Secure Micronaut and Angular App with JHipster](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2020/08/17/micronaut-jhipster-heroku)
- [Fast Java Made Easy with Quarkus and JHipster](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2021/03/08/jhipster-quarkus-oidc)

### Auth0

If you'd like to use [Auth0](https://auth0.com/) instead of Keycloak, follow the configuration steps below:

#### Create an OIDC App using Auth0 Admin Dashboard
- Create a free developer account at <https://auth0.com/signup>. After successful sign-up, your account shall be associated with a unique domain like `dev-xxx.us.auth0.com`
- Create a new application of type `Regular Web Applications`. Switch to the `Settings` tab, and configure your application settings like:
    - Allowed Callback URLs: `http://localhost:8080/login/oauth2/code/oidc`

>     - Allowed Logout URLs: `http://localhost:8080/`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Allowed Logout URLs: `http://localhost:8080/`
    - NOTE: If you're using the JHipster Registry, add URLs for port 8761 too.
```

  }
  const rolesClaim = prepareCustomClaimKey('roles');
  if (context.idToken) {
    context.idToken[rolesClaim] = roles;
  }
  if (context.accessToken) {
    context.accessToken[rolesClaim] = roles;
  }
  callback(null, user, context);
}
```
#### Configure JHipster Application to use Auth0 as OIDC Provider
- In your `JHipster` application, modify `src/main/resources/config/application.yml` to use your Auth0 settings:
```yaml
spring:
  ...
  security:
    oauth2:
      client:
        provider:
          oidc:
            # make sure to include the ending slash!
            issuer-uri: https://{your-auth0-domain}/
        registration:
          oidc:
            client-id: {clientId}
            client-secret: {clientSecret}
            scope: openid,profile,email
jhipster:
  ...
  security:
    oauth2:
      audience:
        - https://{your-auth0-domain}/api/v2/
```
If you have a doubt on the `issuer-uri` value, then, you can get the value from **Applications** > **{Your Application}** > **Settings** > **Advanced Settings** > **Endpoints** > **OpenID Configuration**. Remove `.well-known/openid-configuration` suffix since that will be added by the Spring Security.

> You can use the default `Auth0 Management API` audience value from the **Applications** > **API** > **API Audience** field. You can also define your own custom API and use the identifier as the API  audience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the default `Auth0 Management API` audience value from the **Applications** > **API** > **API Audience** field. You can also define your own custom API and use the identifier as the API audience.
```

- [Build a Secure Micronaut and Angular App with JHipster](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2020/08/17/micronaut-jhipster-heroku)
- [Fast Java Made Easy with Quarkus and JHipster](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2021/03/08/jhipster-quarkus-oidc)

### Auth0

If you'd like to use [Auth0](https://auth0.com/) instead of Keycloak, follow the configuration steps below:

#### Create an OIDC App using Auth0 Admin Dashboard
- Create a free developer account at <https://auth0.com/signup>. After successful sign-up, your account shall be associated with a unique domain like `dev-xxx.us.auth0.com`
- Create a new application of type `Regular Web Applications`. Switch to the `Settings` tab, and configure your application settings like:
    - Allowed Callback URLs: `http://localhost:8080/login/oauth2/code/oidc`
    - Allowed Logout URLs: `http://localhost:8080/`

>     - NOTE: If you're using the JHipster Registry, add URLs for port 8761 too.

Author: BTW, it requires code upgrade on the jhipster registry side

Reviewer: Good point. I [created an issue](https://github.com/jhipster/jhipster-registry/issues/511) to track.
